KOGITO-7271 Add swf editor(tooling) docs (#33)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-extension.adoc

> = VScode Extension for Serverless Workflow Editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= VScode Extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor
```

The VScode extension for Serverless Workflow Editor allows you to view and edit serverless workflow files in your local projects.

.Prerequisites

> * Visual Studio Code version 1.46.0 and above.

Reviewer: Please add this version to serverlessworkflow/antora.yaml file.

> .Serverless Workflow VScode Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Kogito Serverless Workflow VScode Extension
```

image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-extension-page.png[]

== Installing VScode Extension

The VScode extension can be installed in two ways.

> * You can visit https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-extension-serverless-workflow-editor[Red Hat Serverless Workflow Editor] and follow the instructions or use the *extensions* tab(Ctrl+Shift+X) and click on *install* to install the extension.

Reviewer 2: link.

.Installing VScode Extension in marketplace
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-market-place.png[]

> * You can download the _vscode_extension_serverless_workflow_editor_VERSION.vsix_ https://github.com/kiegroup/kie-tools/releases[kie-tools] and install it in vscode using the *Install from VSIX* option in the extensions menu.

Reviewer 2: same

NOTE: After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, the openAPI spec file will be downloaded into the 'specs' folder(<<Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,Configured in the settings>>). The saved file follows the format of _REGISTRY-NAME_OPERATION-NAME_VERSION_.

If any change is made in the registry, make use of the *Refresh Service Registries*... to fetch the new changes.

.Refresh Service Registries button in Function Definition section
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-refresh-registry.png[]

Click on the *Add funtion*... button to create a new Function Definition object.

=== Service Registry settings

The Service Registry settings can be accessed by clicking on the *Setup Service Registries*... situated above the Function Definition section.
In the JSON, the  _kogito.swf.serviceRegistries_ object accepts an array of *registries* attribute. Each registry object has the following properites:

.Registry object example:
```
  {
    "name": "openshift",
    "url": "https://bu98.serviceregistry.rhcloud.com/t/9f07ff4a-e959-49e4-b177-89f0ae5c3a2b/apis/registry/v2",
    "authProvider":"red-hat-account"
  }

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
----
```

The *url* is the actual url where the service registry is hosted.
The *authProvider* is the type of authentication provided to the registry. It can have *none* and *red-hat-account* as values.

.If the value is *red-hat-account* the following are required:
* A https://sso.redhat.com/auth/realms/redhat-external/login-actions/registration?client_id=cloud-services&tab_id=Rd8aj14U3Xk[Red Hat account]
* https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-redhat-account[Redhat authentication extension]

Also if the auth provider is set to *red-hat-account*, a *Log in Service Registries* button is provided which when clicked navigates the user to the Service Registry login.

.Log in Service Registries button in function definition section
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-login-service-registries-function-definition.png[]

=== Connecting the extension to Apicurio Serivce Registries

.Prerequisites
* A https://sso.redhat.com/auth/realms/redhat-external/login-actions/registration?client_id=cloud-services&tab_id=Rd8aj14U3Xk[Red Hat account] with access to https://console.redhat.com/[Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console].

> * https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-redhat-account[Redhat authentication extension]

Reviewer 2: same

= VScode Extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor

> The VScode extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor allows you to view and edit serverless workflow files in your local projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VScode extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor allows you to view and edit CNCF Serverless Workflow Specification files in your local projects.
```

Same here, please add the link to the spec: https://serverlessworkflow.io/

.Prerequisites
* Visual Studio Code version {vscode_version} and above.

.Kogito Serverless Workflow VScode Extension
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-extension-page.png[]

> == Installing VScode Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Installing the VScode Extension
```

The VScode extension can be installed in two ways.

* You can visit link:{kogito_swf_editor_vscode_marketplace_url}[Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor] and follow the instructions or use the *extensions* tab(Ctrl+Shift+X) and click on *install* to install the extension.

.Installing VScode Extension in marketplace
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-market-place.png[]

* You can download the 'vscode_extension_serverless_workflow_editor_VERSION.vsix' link:{kie_tools_releases_page_url}[kie-tools] and install it in vscode using the *Install from VSIX* option in the extensions menu.

.Installing VScode Extension using vsix
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-vsix-package.png[]

> == Working with VScode Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Working with the VScode Extension
```

The extension's settings can be configured by navigating to *File* → *Preferences* → *Settings*.

.The following settings can be configured in the settings page:
*  *Automatically Open Diagram Editor Alongside Text Editor*: Provides a dropdown with *Ask next time*(default), *Do not open* and *Open automatically* to configure the opening of the diagram.
* *Run On Save*: Executes a command to generate an SVG of the workflow when a _save_ action is performed.
* *Service Registries*: Provides a link to access the _settings.json_, to configure the Serivce Registries.
* *Should Reference Service Registry Functions With Urls*: Provides a check box to toggle between downloading the openAPI file or use the url of the function in Service Registry.
* *Specs Storage Path*: Provides a text box to edit the path of openAPI spec file(defaults to 'specs' folder).
* *Svg Filename Template*: Provides a text box to edit the filename template to be used when generating SVG files.
* *Svg File Path*: Provides a text box to edit the path to generate SVG files.

.Settings page of the extension
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-settings.png[]

=== Context based auto-completion

> The extension can use openAPI spec files stored locally in the 'specs folder'(<<Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,check the settings section>>) or in remote Service Registries to provide advanced auto-complete features for *Function Definitions*.

Reviewer: Can you please add a link to the OpenAPI Spec? There's a variable introduced by this PR: #18

The extension is able to parse the openAPI spec files and provide the list of Function Definitions in the auto-complete dialog.

.Function Definition auto complete dialogue
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-function-definition-auto-complete-dialogue.png[]

After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, a full Function Definition object will be added to the functions array with the right settings.

.Function Definition object auto completed
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-completed-function-definition.png[]

Once function definition is added, it will be available for auto completion in the Function Reference section.

.Function Reference auto complete dialogue
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-complete-function-reference-dialogue.png[]

After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, a full Function Reference object will be added with the right reference name and attributes.

.Function Reference object auto completed
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-completed-function-reference.png[]

> NOTE: After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, the openAPI spec file will be downloaded into the 'specs' folder(<<Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,Configured in the settings>>). The saved file follows the format of _REGISTRY-NAME_OPERATION-NAME_VERSION_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, the openAPI spec file will be downloaded into the 'specs' folder(<<Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,Configured in the settings>>). The saved file follows the format of _REGISTRY-NAME_OPERATION-NAME_VERSION_.
====
```

If any change is made in the registry, make use of the *Refresh Service Registries*... to fetch the new changes.

.Refresh Service Registries button in Function Definition section
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-refresh-registry.png[]

> Click on the *Add funtion*... button to create a new Function Definition object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the *Add function*... button to create a new Function Definition object.
```

In the JSON, the  _kogito.swf.serviceRegistries_ object accepts an array of *registries* attribute. Each registry object has the following properites:

.Registry object example:

[source,json]
----
  {
    "name": "openshift",
    "url": "https://bu98.serviceregistry.rhcloud.com/t/9f07ff4a-e959-49e4-b177-89f0ae5c3a2b/apis/registry/v2",
    "authProvider":"red-hat-account"
  }
----

The *name* is an identifier provided for the particular registry.
The *url* is the actual url where the service registry is hosted.
The *authProvider* is the type of authentication provided to the registry. It can have *none* and *red-hat-account* as values.

.If the value is *red-hat-account* the following are required:
* link:{red_hat_sso_login_url}[Red Hat account]
* link:{red_hat_auth_vscode_marketplace_url}[Redhat authentication extension]

Also if the auth provider is set to *red-hat-account*, a *Log in Service Registries* button is provided which when clicked navigates the user to the Service Registry login.

.Log in Service Registries button in function definition section
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-login-service-registries-function-definition.png[]

> === Connecting the extension to Apicurio Serivce Registries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Connecting the extension to Apicurio Service Registries
```

.Prerequisites
* A * link:{red_hat_sso_login_url}[Red Hat account] with access to link:{red_hat_hybrid_cloud_console_url}[Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console].
* link:{red_hat_auth_vscode_marketplace_url}[Redhat authentication extension]

> The extension has the capability to connect to a remote Service Registry inorder to enhance the auto-complete capabilities of the Workflow's Function Definitions section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension has the capability to connect to a remote Service Registry in order to enhance the auto-complete capabilities of the Workflow's Function Definitions section.
```

Login to the link:{red_hat_hybrid_cloud_console_url}[Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console].

.Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console Page
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-rhhcc-page.png[]

Click on the Create Service Registry instance and provide an appropriate name for the registry.

.Create Service Registry
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-create-service-registry-rhhcc.png[]

Click on the registry created to navigate to the following page.

.Service Registry page
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-service-registry-page-rhhcc.png[]

Click on the *Upload artifact* button and fill in the necessary details and upload an artifact with openAPI specification.

> NOTE: The *Group* is not mandatory for Apicurio but is mandatory of the extension to work. Please make sure to enter a value there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE] 
====
The *Group* is not mandatory for Apicurio but is mandatory for the extension to work. Please make sure to enter a value there.
====
```

.Upload tab of Apicurio Service Registry
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-apicurio-upload-artifact.png[]

In the top right corner, click on the Kebab Menu. Click on the *Connection* drop-down to open a list of connection urls for the registry.
Copy the *Core Registry API* url.

.Exposed API's of the registry
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-remote-apicurio-url.png[]

In the Workflow's Function Definition section of the file, click on the *Setup Service Registries* to access the settings.json.

.Function Definition Section with Setup Service Registries option
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-setup-registry.png[]

In the _settings.json_ file, add the following configuration inside the array of registries to connect the extension to the remote instance of Apicurio Service Registry(use the Core Registry API copied from the Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console previously).

.Settings.json registry configuration
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-remote-registry-config.png[]

> save the settings and you have successfully connected to the remote Apicurio Service Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the settings and you have successfully connected to the remote Apicurio Service Registry.
```

In the Workflow's Function Definitions section, click *Ctrl+Space* to view the list of functions available and click on the required function to auto-complete the config.

.Function workflow definition section auto-complete
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-remote-registry-functions-section.png[]

== Validation

> NOTE: Currently validation is performed only for JSON files. The validation is based out of JSON schema and it checks only the structure of the json and not the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Currently validation is performed only for JSON files. The validation is based on JSON schema, and it checks only the structure of the JSON and not the content.
====
```

= VScode Extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor

> The VScode extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor allows you to view and edit CNCF Serverless Workflow Specification files in your local projects.

Reviewer: Same here about the link to the spec.

* You can download the 'vscode_extension_serverless_workflow_editor_VERSION.vsix' link:{kie_tools_releases_page_url}[kie-tools] and install it in vscode using the *Install from VSIX* option in the extensions menu.

.Installing VScode Extension using vsix
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-vsix-package.png[]

== Working with the VScode Extension

Once installation is complete, you can create a Serverless Workflow file or open an existing file in VScode. VScode will automatically use the extension when you open a Serverless Workflow file.

The extension provides a set of commands to perform specific actions.

=== List of commands
* *Serverless Workflow: Generate SVG without any notification*: Generates an SVG file of the diagram in the workspace next to the Serverless Workflow file.
* *Serverless Workflow: Open as Diagram (to the side)*: Opens the diagram to the right side of the editor
* *Serverless Workflow: Setup automatically open Diagram Editor alongside Text Editor*: Allows the user to configure if the diagram should be opened by default alongside the editor. Provides two options, *Open automatically* and *Do not open*.

> * *Serverless Workflow: Configure Service Registries*: Opens the configuration for the Service Registries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *Serverless Workflow: Configure Service Registries*: Opens the configuration for the Service Registries in the Extension Settings screen.
```

* *Serverless Workflow: Refresh Service Registries*: Refresh the artifact list of the Service Registries.
* *Serverless Workflow: Log in Service Registries*: Triggers a log in action of the Service Registries.

To trigger a command, go to *view* → *Command Palette*... or press *Ctrl+Shift+P* to open the command palette. Type in *Serverless Workflow* in the search bar to see the list of commands.

.Command palette of the VScode extension
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-command-palette.png[]

=== Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings
The extension's settings can be configured by navigating to *File* → *Preferences* → *Settings*.

.The following settings can be configured in the settings page:
*  *Automatically Open Diagram Editor Alongside Text Editor*: Provides a dropdown with *Ask next time*(default), *Do not open* and *Open automatically* to configure the opening of the diagram.
* *Run On Save*: Executes a command to generate an SVG of the workflow when a _save_ action is performed.

> * *Service Registries*: Provides a link to access the _settings.json_, to configure the Serivce Registries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *Service Registries*: Gives access to the Service Registries configuration in the _settings.json_ file.
```

> * *Should Reference Service Registry Functions With Urls*: Provides a check box to toggle between downloading the openAPI file or use the url of the function in Service Registry.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *Should Reference Service Registry Functions With Urls*: when autocompleting functions from OpenAPI files in the Service Registry, this setting specifies if the Function operation should use the URL to the OpenAPI file or use a local path (file will be downloaded to the *Specs Storage Path*).
```

* *Specs Storage Path*: Provides a text box to edit the path of openAPI spec file(defaults to 'specs' folder).

> * *Svg Filename Template*: Provides a text box to edit the filename template to be used when generating SVG files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *Svg Filename Template*: Sets the filename template to be used when generating the diagram SVG file. Defaults to '{fileName}.svg'.
```

> * *Svg File Path*: Provides a text box to edit the path to generate SVG files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *Svg File Path*: Sets he path to store the diagram SVG. Defaults to the same edited Serverless Workflow directory.
```

.Settings page of the extension
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-settings.png[]

=== Context based auto-completion

> The extension can use link:{open_api_spec_url}[openAPI spec] files stored locally in the 'specs folder'(<<Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,check the settings section>>) or in remote Service Registries to provide advanced auto-complete features for *Function Definitions*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The extension can use link:{open_api_spec_url}[OpenAPI spec] files stored locally in the 'specs folder' (<<Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,check the settings section>>) or in remote Service Registries to provide advanced auto-complete features for *Function Definitions*.
```

> The extension is able to parse the openAPI spec files and provide the list of Function Definitions in the auto-complete dialog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The extension is able to parse the OpenAPI spec files and provide the list of Function Definitions in the auto-complete dialog.
```

.Function Definition auto complete dialogue
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-function-definition-auto-complete-dialogue.png[]

After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, a full Function Definition object will be added to the functions array with the right settings.

.Function Definition object auto completed
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-completed-function-definition.png[]

Once function definition is added, it will be available for auto completion in the Function Reference section.

.Function Reference auto complete dialogue
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-complete-function-reference-dialogue.png[]

After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, a full Function Reference object will be added with the right reference name and attributes.

.Function Reference object auto completed
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-completed-function-reference.png[]

[NOTE]

> ====

Reviewer 3: I think this Note and the following part (Refresh service registries...) could be moved to the Service Registries section

After selecting one of the options in the auto-complete dialog, the openAPI spec file will be downloaded into the 'specs' folder(<<Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor Setttings,Configured in the settings>>). The saved file follows the format of _REGISTRY-NAME_OPERATION-NAME_VERSION_.
====

If any change is made in the registry, make use of the *Refresh Service Registries*... to fetch the new changes.

.Refresh Service Registries button in Function Definition section
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-refresh-registry.png[]

Click on the *Add function*... button to create a new Function Definition object.

> === Service Registry settings

Reviewer 3: I think we may have to change a bit the contents of this section, we could probably consolidate it with the `Connecting the extension to Apicurio Service Registries`

= VS Code Extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor

The VS Code extension for the Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor allows you to view and edit link:{spec_website_url}[CNCF Serverless Workflow Specification] files in your local projects.

.Prerequisites
* Visual Studio Code version {vscode_version} and above.

.Kogito Serverless Workflow VS Code Extension
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-extension-page.png[]

== Installing the VS Code Extension

The VS Code extension can be installed in two ways.

* You can visit link:{kogito_swf_editor_vscode_marketplace_url}[Kogito Serverless Workflow Editor] and follow the instructions or use the *extensions* tab(Ctrl+Shift+X) and click on *install* to install the extension.

.Installing VS Code Extension in marketplace
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-vscode-market-place.png[]

> * You can download the 'vscode_extension_serverless_workflow_editor_VERSION.vsix' link:{kie_tools_releases_page_url}[kie-tools] and install it in vscode using the *Install from VSIX* option in the extensions menu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can download the 'vscode_extension_serverless_workflow_editor_VERSION.vsix' link:{kie_tools_releases_page_url}[kie-tools] and install it in VS Code using the *Install from VSIX* option in the extensions menu.
```

Author: fixed

.Function Reference object auto completed
image::tooling/serverless-workflow-editor/swf-editor-auto-completed-function-reference.png[]

== How to enable the extension to load OpenAPI files from Apicurio Registries

=== Configuring the Service Registry
The extension allows to configure a list of Service Registries that will enable the editor to load link:{open_api_spec_url}[OpenAPI spec] files stored in the external registries.

You can add the list of Service Registries in the extension's _settings.json_ file using the _kogito.swf.serviceRegistries_ key that matches the following JSON schema.

.Service Registry Schema:

[source,json]
----
 {
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "registries": {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "name": { "type": "string" },
          "url": {
            "type": "string",
            "format": "uri",
            "pattern": "^https?://?[-A-Za-z0-9+&@#/%?=_!:.]+[-A-Za-z0-9+&@#/%=~_|]"
          },
          "authProvider": {
            "type": "string",

>             "enum": ["none", "red-hat-account", "oidc"],

Reviewer 3: @AjayJagan a last minute change, we'll get rid of `oidc` for now, could you please get rid of this?
```suggestion
            "enum": ["none", "red-hat-account"],
```

            "default": "none"
          },

>           "authUrl": {

Reviewer 3: @AjayJagan a last minute comment, could you please get rid of the `authUrl`& `clientId` here?

            "type": "string",
            "format": "uri",
            "pattern": "^https?://?[-A-Za-z0-9+&@#/%?=_!:.]+[-A-Za-z0-9+&@#/%=~_|]"
          },
          "clientId": { "type": "string" }
        },

>         "allOf": [

Reviewer 3: @AjayJagan and also this "allOf": [...] array?
